[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: So the next topic
we're gonna dive into are routes.
Now if we think of the router
as being a finite state machine.
Routers are what manage
transitions between the states.
And this means they're responsible for
managing the act of loading the data.
The act itself is deferred to another
object we'll talk about later.
The route's responsible for loading
the correct template for the route.
And rendering it in the proper context.
It can also handle user interactions.
So if the user clicks or
types something in or hits enter and
that's a significant event
in your application.
The route objects are capable
of responding to that event.
It's important to have an awareness
of the life cycle of a route.
These hooks here are always
called in this particular order.
And they represent different
important moments that you can
inject your own behavior
into the default route.
You can extend it at
some important locations.
I wanna draw your attention to before
model, model, and after model.
They're what we call promise aware hooks.
And all this means is that if you
return a promise from these hooks.
The router will actually wait for
that promise to resolve before
proceeding to the next step.
So for example, if you make an Ajax call
in the model hook to fetch some data.
You will not continue on to
calling the after model method
until that data has returned and
until that promise has resolved.
BeforeModel is a place where you have
access to this transition object.
It's a great place for any early checking
to see if you should in fact be
entering this route in this context.
A common thing to put here is
see if the user's logged in.
And if they're not,
redirect them out to a login page.
It is a promise aware hook.
So you can do a sync task here in
preparation for loading the model.
For example,
if you had to load a script, or
if you had to potentially make an API
call that they didn't represent
the actual data that you were
using in your rendered template.
But it was necessary to perform some task
before actually retrieving the data.
This is where you would do that.
By default, this is just a no-op.
You pass straight through it.
The model hook is the place you
want to make your API call and
get the object of greatest
importance to your template.
And that is the data,
the record that you're looking at.
So, to align with the example that
we've been working on so far.
This is where you'd make an API request
to GitHub to say, I want an org,
or I want a repository, or
I want a list of repositories in this org.
The default behavior has to do
with Ember data in particular.
And if you format the names of your
dynamic segment parameters in a particular
way, and that particular way
would be something like post_id.
Ember data will try to fetch.
A model of type post with whatever,
whose ID is whatever the value is in that
dynamic segment pulled from the URL.
So be careful when naming
your dynamic segments.
Because you may see some unexpected
behavior if you align with this
convention.
Ember will sort of try to help you out.
And if you're not expecting it,
it can be a little confusing.
So whatever the eventual
value is that model returns.
And this could be the actual value
returned by the function model
in the route, or
it could be whatever the promise
returned by the function model in route.
Whatever that promise resolves to, that
will be available in the corresponding
template that's matched to that route
as this property called content.
And that's an Ember idiom.
You don't want to try to mess
around with that because it
is what people expect to see.
>> Speaker 2: Content versus model?
I always use model instead in templates.
>> Mike North: I believe you
can use either at this point.
>> Speaker 2: This one, or this?
>> Mike North: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Is there a definite
advantage there?
>> Mike North: I don't know if
there's one advantage or another.
So there used to be this
concept of proxy controllers.
But I don't want to go
in to that because it's.
That is the old way.
I'm deliberately steering clear
of some of the legacy stuff.
So in addition to being
available in the template for
this particular route
has the value content.
Other routes can get access to
the model that you've loaded
using this.modelFor, and
then the name of the route.
So, if for some reason in the route for
loading the repost,
I needed to get the organization.
I needed to get the org,
which is a different route
that's responsible for
retrieving that data.
I could just within my child route get
the model that was resolved in the parent
route and have access to it.
And potentially maybe
build a URL off of it.
Because I might need the orgs to ask for
the repost for that org sneak preview.
RSVP hash so if,
definitely get used to using RSVP.js it
is part of Ember and it comes for free.
It's mounted as a global
on the Ember object.
RSVP hash is very useful
when you have particularly
an object that may be mixed values and
eventual values.
So, maybe an object with
a bunch of keys and
some of the values are numbers and
strings.
But some are promises that eventually
will resolve to something.
RSVP.hash, gives you a single promise.
That one resolved will have
all of your data ready to go.
AfterModel, this is called,
obviously, after the model hook.
This is where you want validation that
depends on the resolved model itself.
So you can imagine a case
where you retrieve a record.
Maybe you've got some, your API makes soft
deleted records available for some reason.
You can still have access to them.
And, you might want to
transition to a different view,
or you might want to handle
something in a particular way.
If in fact, the actual data that
came back has a certain state.
This is where you would put that.
And again, just like beforeModel,
this is a pass through.
If you don't extend and
implement this message yourself.
So that rounds up the promise aware hooks.
And we're gonna look at a couple more.
So redirect, it happens almost at
the exact same time as afterModel.
The reason that you need this.
The reason this is an important
one to know about is
that if you need to redirect and
you do it in afterModel.
You're actually interrupting
the current transition.
And that transition will
basically be run again.
So, imagine the case where we're in org.
And then we redirect to like orgrepos,
a child route.
What'll end up happening is we're
gonna run the beforeModel, Model and
afterModel again.
You basically throw everything out and
start over if you redirect
from within afterModel.
Whereas if you redirect
from within redirect,
the initial transition is
considered to be successful.
And you won't redo the work of this route
that you're actually in right here.
And depending on what you need to do.
That can be detrimental to run
through that process a second time as
you're transitioning into a child route.
Does everyone understand
the difference there?
It's a little nuanced.
All right.
So setup controller I want you guys to
forget the word controller that I'm trying
not to mention controller.
Controller is so Ember 1.X.
It's not Ember 2.X.
This is where you, it's not promise aware.
And it's where you can setup additional
context available to your template.
So say that we want in the repos page to
have org also available in repos.hps.
In setup controller we
can use thisdocmodel4
to grab that model from the parent route.
And we could actually place
it on this controller.
And it would be available in
the template as a second parameter.
So we would use content for
the list of repos.
And then we could use say, org for
the organization those repos belong to.
And we'd have full access to that model.
Make sure you extend this properly.
And that means using super to
call the default functionality.
This does some important
stuff in the base class and
you do not want to omit
that important stuff.
So common bad pattern that
people fall into is, and
I have to say a little bit
about controllers here.
So let's try not to.
So controllers are singletons.
They're singleton's by default.
They stick around for
the entire lifetime of that
users session, or
lower case S session in your app.
And if you find that you have state on
your controllers and you're using setup
controller to kind of zero everything out
and blank it out and reset your state.
This becomes a maintenance challenge.
Cuz every time you add
state to the controller,
you have to make sure you add
the appropriate cleanup logic.
So try not to fall into that trap there.
It's fine if you're just making
an object available consistently.
But if you find that you're setting
things back to zero, blanking things out.
Take a step back and
see if you can find another way to do it.
Cuz that doesn't scale up in terms of
scaling with complexity very well.